# John

[1: 1-5]
> Jesus is the word of God. He was with God when God created the world. Through Jesus all
things where made. Nothing that has come into existence came into existence without Jesus.
In Jesus was life, the light of man. By life, we mean freedom from the punishment of sin.
The light shines in the darkness. The darkness cannot overcome the light.

[1: 6-13]
> John came before Jesus to testify about the light so that people may believe through him.
The true light is Jesus; Jesus was there in the beginning and the world was made through
Jesus. Jesus came to his people, but Jesus' people did not know him. To the people who
know him, Jesus gives the right to be children of God. Not children of the flesh but of
the Lord God.

[1: 14-18]
> Jesus became human and lived as we do. We saw his glory, the glory of God's true son. He
was full of grace and truth. John said that Jesus had a higher rank than himself, that he
existed before him, at the beginning of time. It is through Jesus that we receive grace.
The law was given through Moses, but grace and truth are given through Jesus. No one has
fully understood God and his divinity, but Jesus is God.

[1: 19-28]
> The Jews in Jerusalem sent priests and Levites to find out who John was. When they asked
him who he was, John said he was not the Christ. They then asked him if he was Elijah or
the Profit. John said he was not. They then asked John who he was, so they could report
back to their senders. John responded quoting Isaiah. John claimed to be a voice in the
wilderness that makes straight the way before the Christ (Isaiah 40: 3-4). The Jews who
had questioned John where sent from the pharisees. They asked John if he was not the
Christ, Elijah, or the Profit, why was he baptizing people?

> John responded, "I baptize with water, but there is one among the Jews that I am
unworthy to untie the sandal of. That one among the Jews will come after me."

> The questioning of John took place in Bethany beyond the Jordan River where John was
baptizing.

[1: 29-34]
> The day after he was questioned, John saw Jesus coming towards him. John then declared
that Jesus was the lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. John said that Jesus
is the one he spoke about who shall come after him that Jesus had a higher rank and
existed before him. John recognized Jesus so Jesus would be shown to the world. John came
before baptizing with water. John saw the spirit in the form of a dove fall on Jesus.
Jesus will baptize with the Holy Spirit. John, the writer of the gospel, not John the
Baptist, saw the works of Jesus and testified that Jesus is the son of God.
